---

date: 2021-11-14
category:
    - work
tags:
    - thoughts
    - english
    - no_answer
---

# Long Term Support

## My work

When we trying to hire people while we trying to sell idea that work with us is
really great, one of our selling point is that we have ofter opportunity to
start new projects. (we assume) That people don't like to join projects that
already going and fix bugs that have been introduced by other people(we like to
call legacy projects). That very often (about every 3-6 months), you can reset
whatever you tried to build. We all have been talking that you can try some new
technology, because there is no legacy part that new tech won't be able to
support. And we all proud of it. Until today I had same view that was very
strong. Today I have heard other opinion, person was talking about his passion
to join ongoing projects that already has bugs and you already have problems
that you have to solve. He was saying that there is nothing exited about start
with blank page... Then I start to play with this idea. And I started to look
for what is really interesting in starting with new projects. When you have to
start new project (I think we should say code base, because project already
going and when there is solution that was identified thought some research you
just have to translate human explanation of solution into code). With this point
of view there is not much to create, coders looking for an excitement while they
are coding. I think that's why we want it to be an 'art' (this is what some
coders say about coding, I agree with it too). But there there is less
creativity in it. Then some people want to create and they want to create
something. Like tooling, some unnecessary interfaces in the code (more layers,
that more scientific, but less readable and understandable for other teammates
). May be people like to start new projects more ofter because there are less
responsibility? What interesting in joining ongoing project (legacy project)?
You have to fix bugs, architecture decisions, you will have to underhand how
previous maintainers been thinking. What they have been trying to archive (may
be just make it work somehow, or try to new code pattern that they just learn
recently) how previous maintainers been thinking. What they have been trying to
archive (may be just make it work somehow, or try to new code pattern that they
just learn recently). But you, actually, have same freedom then they in the
beginning. You can fix bugs, make it more understandable and stable for LTS.
Nobody telling you how to do it. You have a PROBLEM not a task. Problem can be
solved and I think this is where coding can be an art. However here is what I
have found during wring it. There are 3 phases: MVP -> Translation MVP into
maintain mode -> and maintain mode. And second phase is where you will most of
opportunity for an art.

## Learn to code.

Let's talk about new coders that learning to code. How they usually study? They
get some theory and then they practice how to create new projects from zero. I
have never seen that on bootcamp to student been given ongoing repo (project),
which they have to contribute or fix some issues. But this is how their first
job will look like in 97%. And when they join their first new team it takes them
some time to adapt. Maybe we can add something to the way we grow new
developers?
